Steve's Stories
My name is Steve Fletcher
and in 1990 I founded Swicker Carnival
who have organised Cardiff Carnival ever since.
Steve's Story Number 5
Cardiff Carnival Come Rain or Shine
I want to let you in on a secret.
It has been known to rain here in Cardiff, occasionally.
Devotees of Cardiff Carnival like to describe it as being weatherproof.
What they are referring to is the phenomenon whereby,
after three weeks of increasingly pressurised costume production and dance rehearsals,
that something uniquely special happens on Carnival Day itself.
All the interviewees for Cardiff Carnival's online archive,
recorded for this Heritage Lottery Fund project,
still speak with passion of how their spirits rose on the big day of the Carnival parade itself.
Whilst many Cardiff Carnival parades have enjoyed sunshine,
more than a few have taken place in damp and, upon occasion, deluge conditions.
The first of these was a downpour as the parade passed St David's Hall in the haze in 1991.
One man then showed us all how the true carnivalist reacts to torrential rain.
Drum tutor Sam Alexander
Sam was leading the 50-strong Maracatu drumming group with dance sections four and aft,
as the heavens opened big time.
Sam's response was to start pogoing up and down like a crazed punk rocker, while bellowing,
Go higher, go higher!
His drummers responded to his carnival mania, and as his group's rhythm intensified,
their drumming doubled in speed.
Inspired by Sam and the even faster, thunderous tempo of the drums,
the entire parade seemed to find untapped energy,
and we quite literally steamed the rain-soaked length of the haze.
Moreover, our audience stayed with us throughout, dripping wet but cheering wildly,
and not running for shelter as would normally be the case.
In my opinion, the worst ever torrential rain was during Cardiff Carnival 2005.
I still smile when thinking about how the rain was so intense from start to finish
that in order to ensure our body painted blue devils stayed blue,
they had to be accompanied by teams carrying buckets of paint to slosh on them every few minutes
as another coating was washed off.
This just goes to prove that not even a full-on dark deluge can stop the Cardiff Carnival on parade.